So now we have our JSON Web Token ready,
so
it's client-side,
available in local storage and
also in our store, and
now it's time to use it.
But before doing that, do you have
any question on JSON web tokens?
Why are we doing that?
Why is it important?
>> Student: What's the benefit
over the session token?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well, the benefit
is that when you are using a session
token, actually, you need to save
session data server-side, so
you need an in-memory storage or
file system storage.
So you need resources from the server.
So that's the main advantage
of using this technique,
is that you're relying on saving
the data client-side, but
because it's encrypted and
you are the only one having the key.
You are the only one that
can decrypt the data, so
then you don't need to
spend any actual resource.
Server-side, no memory,
no database, no file system,
specifically target
the data from the user.
And that's important when
you have millions of users.
So that's the main advantage, actually.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so, the
final part of our project is to actually
get favorites and
watch lists working okay?
And we know how to work with pages,
so making the page for
favorites and watch lists actually
pretty straightforward at this time.
So when you create the routes
the components, we will do that.
But the main problem is that to actually
get the data, we need new APIs.
So we wanna get the data, and
also we wanna push new data,
because when we are getting into a movie,
we know that we have
some buttons here to add to favorites and
add to watch list.
So we need to create those
API handlers server-side.
That's actually also pretty
straightforward, but
there is one catch here.
For calling those APIs,
I actually must be logged in, okay?
So we need to read,
we need to send from the client, and
also read from the server that JWT
that token, decrypt the token and
get the user's email from there, or the
user's ID in case you're using an ID and
not the email, and
then make the queries over there.
So that means that if you
go server-side to main.go,
actually, we will need to
add more routes here, okay?
Example here after authentication.
So I'm going to start writing them,
and then I will refactor it.
So I need to handle another func, for
example this can be,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: API, and
we can use the same account as we
were using before in this folder.
And we can say favorites and
something similar.
And we need to create then
another handler for this.
So that's actually simple to solve.
So let's say we will create one,
GetFavorites.
It's not there, so it's give me an error.
The thing is that get favorites will
need to actually read the token,
decrypt the token, and do that.
And also we will do another one for
watch list that actually
needs to do the same thing.
So it needs to open the token,
read the token, and
encrypt the token, get the email,
go to the database.
It seems like we may have in
a real project many APIs,
sometimes hundreds of APIs that will need
to work with the JWT, with the token.
So there should be a better idea or
a better way to do that instead of
doing it manually on every situation.
And for that,
we will use the idea of a middleware.
A middleware is a design pattern where
we can set some piece of software that's
why it's sending with where it's
a middleware, it's a middle software,
a piece of software that we put
in the middle of two pieces.
So in this case, one piece is gonna
be GetFavorites and GetWatchlist,
and the other one is gonna be
our multiplexer from HTTP.
We want the middleware there.
That middleware will, for example,
work with the, in this case, the JWT.
It will decrypt the JWT, it will check if
it's bad, and it will return an error.
Yeah, if it's not valued, and
if it's valued, it's gonna parse data, for
example, the email through something known
as the context to the next software.
So for example,
GetFavorite, GetWatch list.
So the idea is that then
these handlers will receive
the email automatically, okay?
So if we get there, we will get the email.
So that's why we should create this
idea of a middleware first, in case
you're following along with the readme,
we will be at h1 creating the middleware.
The middleware is just another function,
so
we don't have any special thing in Go
that states, this is a middleware, okay?
It looks like a handler, actually, but
the difference is that we
will use it as a middleware.
So, if I take this middleware,
I need to put that in the handler.
So, in account handlers, typically,
we keep the factory,
new function at the end or
at the beginning, and
main just not mandatory.
And then we can save that middleware,
okay?
So the middleware is going to be used.
Then, every time we have a route
that needs authentication, okay?
We are talking about,
in this case, any kind of route,
there can be also static files.
We don't have that right now because
we are managing that client side, but
if server-side, there is a full
folder that you don't wanna serve,
if the user has no JWT, no token,
then you can also use that middleware.
Okay, so now we have the handler.
So what's the idea?
The idea is that we will
use that middleware to wrap
when we were actually trying to do this,
now we will wrap this somehow,
we will finish this in a second.
We will say,
accounthandler.Auth middleware, and
the middleware will receive
the next handler as an argument.
So this is a part where we will parse
the new handlers that I didn't create yet,
okay, but
to understand what we're doing, okay,
the idea is that this will
look like something like this.
Okay, it will look something like this.
Then I will need to
refactor this a little bit.
So then I need to create
the other handlers.
Also, we need to understand
that the handlers,
we need to talk to our data store.
Remember, we have a data repository.
That is the one that is
connecting to the database, okay?
So when you go to the database and
we check the account repository,
okay, in the list of
functions that we have.
We already have saved collection, and
we already have get account
details that will also give me
all the favorites and
movies in the watch list, okay?
So we already have
the data repository ready.
We just need the handlers, so HTTP can
actually handle those and request that.
So going back to handlers, now I need
to create the missing handlers, okay?
And in h2,
you have the handler SaveToCollection and
also GetFavorite, and GetWatchlist.
Those are just going to
our data repository, and
they're grabbing the data or
saving the data.
You can see that this one,
as we did before,
they are working sometimes
with data coming from post.
Remember that we can send data from post,
so we are decoding the body.
We have already done this before and
explained this before.
So we are decoding the body that we are
sending from the client in a structure.
For example, in this case, it's gonna
say that movie into that collection.
Remember, collection is an abstract
concept that we have here to work
with favorites and watchlist.
And the part that is new for
us is that we need the email
to get favorites and
to get the watch list, and
also we need the email to
save into the database.
So we need the user, and
we are getting that from the context.
This is how this works.
R the request, receives an object,
actually value known as the context.
In this case, inside the context
is like a dictionary, okay?
It's a bag, and that bag is going through
all the middlewares that you may have.
So when you have middlewares,
the idea is that we have
the multi Multiplexer of HGDP.
So this is an HGDP
request is coming to Go.
Go takes that, and typically that request
go through a series of middlewares.
You can have as many
middlewares as you want.
For example, one can check security,
the other one can verify the data is not
coming with some bad data, or wherever,
then the other one can do logging.
So maybe it's creating
a load of every request.
And so we have a lot of middlewares.
Each middleware will take the request,
and we'll parse the request to the next
middleware until we end
up in the final handler.
Well, each middleware can also
talk with the context and can use
that bag that we are parsing through
to store data for the next middleware.
So in this case, our middleware for
authentication is actually
adding the email where this email is
coming from, from decrypting the JWT.
So that's why when we get into get
favor is we already have the email in
the context, because the previous
middleware actually decrypted it from JWT,
and now we are ready to use it, okay?
What happens if there were no email,
if the token were not the right one,
or someone is trying to hijack the token?
Well, we need to check the middleware and
see what happens.
But actually what will happen is
that it's going to throw an error
because the middleware has also
access to the response writer.
So if the middleware think that there
is an error, it will stop there.
In that case, it's not gonna pass
the execution to the handler,
okay, make sense?
Here we are parsing the token.
We are getting the data here.
If it's an invalid token, we are sending
to W, so to the response writer, an error.
In this case, that was unauthorized,
this is 401, okay?
The same happens if, for example,
if you are trying to get
the claims from the token.
If you remember, the claims are like
the metadata that we are saving,
that so far we were saving the email
from the user and the expiration, okay?
So we are getting that data, and
this is where we are getting
the email from the claims, and
then saving it in the context for
the next part, okay?
Does it make sense?
So now that we have the handlers ready,
it's time to finish this idea.
So something to have in mind is
that middlewares are not expecting
a function like this, so we need to call,
you will see this in a second.
You will need to call handle
with the middleware, and
then inside the middleware,
you're going to parse HTTP handle func,
in this case, GetFavorites,
something like that.
Also, by the way,
you have this in README at the end.
You have the three handlers.
So now that we know what we are doing,
we can just paste the three so
we have three new handles,
account favorites,
account watchlist, and
account save-to-collection.
Okay, and
they're passing through the middleware.
Func above looks like you
parse an endpoint, but
you don't have to do
that in the middleware?
Lemme see if I understand.
Are you saying that here when
I'm saying handle function,
I'm not passing the endpoint.
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
because it's a middleware,
because I'm parsing that to a middleware.
This is like a pipe, okay?
So when you are working with middlewares,
you have a pipe.
You have the final hander, and
then, you have the request.
So the URL or the path is needed only
on the request when you open the pipe.
When you open the pipe, you parse the data
and the initial data, the initial request.
So you check the URL there.
Then In the pipe,
you have several middlewares that
will be looking at the request,
doing something with a response, or not
doing something with the context or not.
And passing the request to the next
middleware until it got to the end
of the pipe, and the end of
the pipe is actually the handler.
So that's why you define the URL
only at the beginning of the pipe,
not on every part of the pipe.
That makes sense?
>> Student: Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, I just wasn't sure if
the signature for that method.
It seems like Go is smart enough to
know that it doesn't need it anymore,
since it's being parsed as middleware,
then.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, exactly.
>> Student: Okay.